
INSPIRATION

Wind is spontaneous and often unexpected. It can manifest as a slight breeze, or a powerful gale. It can move in many directions and as a focused force. It can gently spread the seeds of life, and be a fearful force of destruction. Wind can carry a message for miles, even around the world. Wind can be harnessed and turned into energy.

OVERVIEW

Wind is a new metaphor, backed by a collection of standardized behaviors, to promote developing and adopting direct nearby-capable applications, services and features, for smart devices. It builds on the widespread availability of local-area communications technologies, such as WifiDirect, Bluetooth (Classic & LE) and NFC/RFID. Wind also promotes the use of camera and microphones to support a decentralized name service, through visual and audio identifiers such as QR codes and machine-decodable chirps. Finally, sensors like GPS and accelerometers can help instrument and tune the network, improving routing and adding the possibility of geo-coded data to the system.

While Wind-like or "nearby" features exist in mainstream applications today, they are largely proprietary and purpose built. Google Chromecast devices use a combination of technologies, including human inaudible tones, to enable  Chromecast devices to be discovered and connected by the Chromecast app. Apple uses similar capabilities in AirDrop  to allow  nearby discovery and file sharing. Firechat emerged on the global scene as the first broadly popular messaging app that attempted to create a chatroom  experience over WiFi and Bluetooth when the Web wasn't available. All of these, and other uses, can be likened to the very popular dial-up services Prodigy, AOL, and Compuserve before the Web. They had the basic features of applications of the Web (email, news, encyclopedias, games) but without any opportunity for open, interoperable innovation outside of their corporate silos.

In contrast, the Web was not a stack of code to be licensed. It was an idea of a network of hyperlinked media that had germinated for a long time, combined with a sensible, simple protocol and a functional implementation, all backed by real world experiences and needs. Wind aims to emulate this model.

Wind might also be mistaken for a "mesh" system, a word consciously not used in this text thus far. Mesh typically refers to fixed systems that route Internet Protocol messages in a decentralized manner. It often is seen as a means to get people online (meaning connected to the Web) when more traditional or expected services provided by governments and telecommunications providers are not available. Mesh systems are rarely spontaneous, as they can be complicated to setup for reliable use. Once a mesh IP is established, many applications don't work as well as expected because they believe they are on a more traditional IP network. There are mesh systems that are asynchronous and message-oriented, such as for sensor networks, but they are generally used for closed systems or with closely coordinated participants. Mesh definitely has its place, but it is not Wind.

